Skip To Main Content
Toggle Menu
Search
Clear
Search
Schools & Programs
Contact Us
Students' Rights & Responsibilities and Annual Notices
SPPS strives to create welcoming schools where each and every student is seen, known and valued.
Equal Opportunity/ Non-Discrimination Policy
Discipline Complaint Procedure
SPPS does not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, sex, marital status, national origin, age, color, religion, gender identity and expression, ancestry, status with regard to public assistance, sexual or affectional orientation, familial status, disability or membership or activity in a local commission. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to 360 Colborne Street, Saint Paul, MN 55102 or call 651-744-6950. The 415 form may be used to report possible instances of discrimination or harassment based on protected characteristics.
To report discrimination, harassment or other violations:
Employees – contact Human Resources at 651-767-8202 or the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) at 651-744-6950. The 415 form may be used to report possible instances of discrimination or harassment based on protected characteristics.
Students – first contact the principal of the school/program, and call the EEO at 651-744-6950 to report discrimination, including Title IX (sexual discrimination, sexual harassment) violations or violations of student human rights. The 415 form may be used to report possible instances of discrimination or harassment based on protected characteristics. If the alleged harasser is a student, first report the incident to the school principal. Another option is to report the conduct to the Assistant Superintendent for the school at 651-767-8133.
Form 415 This reporting form is used to report 415, Title IX or Student Conduct complaints.
Minnesota Statute Section 121A.61 requires the School District to enact a districtwide school discipline policy that contains a discipline complaint procedure that students, parents and other guardians, and school staff may use to file a complaint and seek corrective action regarding the when the requirements of Minnesota Statutes Sections 121A.40 to 121A.61, including the implementation of the local behavior and discipline policies are not being implemented appropriately or are being discriminatively applied.
Saint Paul Public Schools (SPPS) urges that parties first attempt to resolve complaints with the principal or assistant principal before filing a formal complaint. If these attempts have been unsuccessful, a formal complaint may be filed using the Form 415.
To file a discipline complaint, refer to the following resources:
506.00.01 Discipline Complaint Procedure
Discipline Complaint form
The rules and regulations regarding student behavior and discipline contained in this handbook are established to fulfill the Board of Education’s policies as stated in 506.01 and 506.02.
This Handbook applies to incidents and situations that occur on any property owned or controlled by Saint Paul Public Schools or occurring in connection with any activity sponsored by or associated with the Saint Paul Public Schools (“SPPS”). This Handbook may also apply to incidents involving SPPS students if an unapproved connection or association to Saint Paul Public Schools or its staff is explicitly or implicitly stated or inferred (for example, hazing).
This is a guide to student conduct. Adult staff members are held to high standards of behavior and are subject to all applicable laws, Board of Education policies, and human resources’ rules and practices.
All
Communications
Data
Health and Safety
Indian Education
Library Services
Non-Discrimination
Nutrition Services
Policies
Technology
Transportation
Cell Phone and Personal Electronic Devices (Policy 550.00)
Saint Paul Public Schools has a cellular phones and personal electronic devices policy (policy 550.00). Students and families must adhere to this policy and specific school procedures and guidelines.
Directory Information
Directory information is public information and can be released without consent. Saint Paul Public Schools has designated the following information as directory information: Name, birth date, grade, school, dates of enrollments, awards, and extra-curricular information.
Equal Opportunity/ Non-Discrimination Policy
SPPS does not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, sex, marital status, national origin, age, color, religion, gender identity and expression, ancestry, status with regard to public assistance, sexual or affectional orientation, familial status, disability or membership or activity in a local commission.
Federal Asbestos Emergency Response Act (AHERA)
In 1987, the Federal Asbestos Emergency Response Act (AHERA) took effect requiring school districts to develop and implement an asbestos management plan.
Health Concerns
Please contact your building Licensed School Nurse (LSN) regarding any health concerns that impact learning, require medication at school, or have the potential to result in an emergency.
How Your Contact Information Will Be Used
In addition to being notified of emergencies, you will receive information from the district, your school and your student's teachers via email, robocall and/or text message.
Indian Education 506 Form Information
Any student who self identifies as American Indian and is coded North American Indian on Infinite Campus is eligible to participate in District 196’s American Indian Education Program.
Library Go
Library Go is a virtual pass for books, eBooks, databases, homework help and more with the Saint Paul Public Library.
Load More
